The "default" fallacy

When she came back she had a transparent blouse that from which her nipples were clearly visible and the short miniskirt with panties of different color.

<span class="voice-anna"> "So what do you like... in sex?"</span> she said the last part after I sat silent for a few seconds (although her looks provided enough context for her question, even for me. <span class="voice-maxim">"The... Part... Where... I... Cum..."</span>, I said and I became silent again, realising that what I said sounded like a stupid joke, although I was actually trying to be serious. "OK. For example... What's your favourite category of porn sites?" she asked, and when I began blushing she began encouraging me "Yes, tell me what are you thinking about right *now*?"

But I didn't, and so she took the lead and started describing a sexual fantasy of hers which I am not sure I remember clearly as it was it was pretty complex, but which began something like this: Anna/Dana wakes up at the seashore after taking a part of a ship wreck. She is naked, except for a bra (she had this whole story that justified this). Soon she is captured by a tribe of ingenious people who plan to use her as a sex slave, but she somehow realizes this and comes up with a counter plan - to seduce the members of the tribe and turn *them* into sex slaves instead. And via a long series of orgies, backstabbing and mindgames (although a little chaotic at times, her plot was probably more structured than the narrative you are reading right now) she becomes the princess of the tribe.

She got immerced within that fantasy for seconds and started teasing me and then making me grop her, constantly getting in and out of character. The whole situation seemed funnier (and therefore much less weird) than I might have expected, but maybe it was because it all reached the level of weirdness after which you couldn't expect anything.

Or perhaps it was that it is not our quirks that makes us weird, it's out inability to accept them and to show them to the world, perhaps it's the fear that we would be misunderstood. A fear which was, obviously, totally well-grounded, but also illogical, as we are *always* misunderstood. It is this fear which actually is the sole reason why the very concept of the perverse exists. This fear of exposing yourself, that makes you hide, betray, even remove this part of you which you actually hold dearest. This fear that makes us make up explanations like "I went crazy for a while, this is not who I am, this is just a little deviation in my behaviour, this is Dana."

This is what I thought first, but then while while I was sitting with her, trying out a fantasy of mine (my dream where my maths teacher has sex with me to reward me for my awesome work on the end-of-year test) the distinction between the perverse and the vanilla seemed to me superfluous, as did the distinction between alcohol and marijuanna which originally tempted me to try the latter. It seemed that it existed only so to provide ground for some people to feel bad, or rather for the opposite party to feel good.

And if not good, then at least protected. My memory shifted to several of my classmates who at ninth grade were already preparing for university exams and were starting to prepare their portfolio for when they apply at Facebook or Google (or for the more adventorous, when they create some startup.) - they were the biggest assholes ever, but nobody was able to say a thing about them as they had were carrying the establishment doctrines like an armour. 

Like, when I was little and I asked my father (and parents are the ultimate reason why deviations are considered wrong in the first place) why it's wrong to smoke pot, he told me that as a respectable member of society, I *cannot be seen doing it* and so I have two options - I would either have to drop it at some point, which would be painful for me, or keep it a secret and live some kind of double life, but he clearly was most afraid of the third option which he didn't mention - that I might decide *not to be a* respectable member of society, that I would deviate further and I would integrate this habit into my life and exibit it in a way that would normalize it in the eyes of some people and, by doing so, normalize myself as well, making the deviation an integral part of myself (and therefore not a deviation at all), and feeling good about it, and the only downside would be that I would make some people uncomfortable. He never mentioned that option because I would have asked him what's wrong with it and he would have to lie and say that it's not good to make people uncomfortable, but both of us would know that the worst part was that he would make *himself* uncomfortable, something that there was no way around. 

And the case with Ann was a similar - I am sure that she was way more insecure than she should be, because her parents were more assertive. But again, why was it so? Perhaps it (the vanilla-perverse distinction) was there to enable some people to obscure the choices that they are making and to make it seem like they had no choice, that they did what they did just because that's the way it is done in principle (I call this "the "default" fallacy".) Why were they were doing it really? To buy some comfort, like how catholic priests were offering rich people eternal salvation for a few gold coins - lame but better than nothing, especially if you already have the coins. And to go back to my main point (in case anyone remembers what I was talking about), the existense of the perverse, (especially the perverse that is self aware) exposes the hypocricy of those people's whole endeavour is being vanilla, as being normal people, in a way which they just could not bear. 

Dana was quickly getting into her role as a math teacher with me being her brilliant student whom she rewards with sex. But I wasn't feeling it - it seemed too artificial, to "overengeneered", if you must - everything that she did was inspired by my own kinks, with which I was so familiar that they had become vanilla for me. She slowly walked from the "blackboard" and sat on my desk with her legs crossed, and then she began gradually opening them, as she praised me for my "performance" in a way that was rather artificial - no real math teacher would tell anyone that he is a genius, without first listing all their mistakes, however minor are they. I guess I was expected to concentrate to her legs and not her voice, but the more I tried to do that, the more firmly I got caught in doing the exact opposite. I was trying to be "normal". Which, even as a sentence seemed paradoxica. If "normal" people were really normal, they would not be concerned with the way other people perceive them. If they were normal, they wouldn't be inclined to judge the normality of others. They would not be at all interested to what extend they fit in this or that norm. Rather, they would just act according to what they feel is right. 

I abandoned my thoughts, or rather I left them be, without actually engaging with them. I put my hand on Anna/Dana's butt and pulled her body towards mine. We continued with our roleplay, but were doing so in a somewhat tongue-in-cheek manner, as if we were parodying the way we talked just before. I undressed, (I was fully-clothed while she was naked for at least half an hour) and I started rubbing my dick to her pussy, getting more and more horny. I looked at her face, fearing that I was making her uncomfortable, but she actually looked calmer than when I was clothed. And then she started caressing my body end encouraging me to have sex with her <span class="voice-anna">"OK, let's get on with it"</span>, <span class="voice-anna">"OK, now put it in!"</span>, and the thought that I was about to do that, that we are about to start having sex was so arousing that it actually made me finish, by spraying my sperm all around Anna/Dana's pussy and belly, all the way up to her titties. I closed my eyes, and when I opened them in this brief second of clarity that you experience right after you cum, (among other occasions) all my thoughts from before came back to me, but transformed in a way where all the tension from them was removed - the issues that I saw seemed like non-issues. The paradoxes, which before that seemed daunting right now just seemed like a mere curiosity.

 <span class="voice-anna">"What are you thinking about?"</span>She asked me once she stopped laughting.

 <span class="voice-maxim">"It seems like the concept of vanilla, like vanilla sexual taste, only exists so some people to obscure the choices that they are making and make it seem that they made no choice at all. In other words' that their decisions are not really decisions and they are not being deliberate. But they actually are! Because if you really are acting spontaneously, if you aren't being deliberate about your choices, they are actually non-choices. So it wouldn't actually matter how they (your choices) look to other people."</span>

 <span class="voice-anna">"Hm, then, shouldn't it at least be easy to make them?" </span>Anna asked. 

I told her that Cathy had told me the exact same thing earlier today, thinking that I would make her happy, but she didn't care and dismissed the conversation. After that, I remembered that we were having sex with Anna (or were about to anyways) and I started apologizing to her that she didn't finish. She quickly told me that she'd actually reached a climax several times during our foreplay, which made me feel really weird - I simultaneously had my confidence boosted because I succeeded to make a woman orgasm without even touching her while I was also made insecure by the fact that I apparently wasn't at all aware about my parner's state during the act. <span class="voice-maxim">"I don't think you did."</span> I said half-jokingly and then I offered to lick her clitorus so she understands the difference, which she accepted.
