Then I look at my notes on the Knapsack problem which were laying there and with my reversed judgement I instantly realized that there was no solution for it - all I had to do to get the answer was to adjust my question - instead of asking why isn't P in NP. I asked myself who said that it should be there in the first place, and for what reason, and that question completely shifted my perception of the problem. As a matter of fact my shift was so complete that I even failed to understand the people who thought that there was a reason why P would be in NP - they all seemed like a bunch of self-important weirdoes, and mathematics seemed like an unhealthy obsession, that were twisting their minds, making them delusional with those weird ideas like that they posess knowledge that the others didn't while all they really did was concentrating at one detail, at a mere leaf falling from the crown of a gigantic three and insisting that this very leaf represented the tree in a way so complete that all they needed to do was to understand the leaf, and they will know more about the tree than the person who climbed it. 

The funny thing is that in some respects they are somewhat right - whenever you study mathematics, as in real life, you came across those very weird and convoluted structures that are beyond any kind of explanation - you have the fractals like the Mandelbrot set, that is a result set of a super simple equation but looks totally out of this world, you had the continuous processes that work in a way that is totally inexplicable to me, the NP problems, the motherfucking monster group (for which John Conways said that it's his only wish to "know what it is about"). But no, most people who study maths would either ignore most of those or dismiss them as uninteresting, or alternatively obsess over one of them, forcefully trying to fit it in their invented structure, like so many people tried to fit NP into P. 

Thinking about all this, I wrote a proof that P does not equal NP, which I thought was correct, but which did not resemble any of the proofs that I have seen, with the possible exception of Turing's "On computable numbers..." where he introduced the Turing machine in order to prove that some mathematical problems are undecidable. The proof started from an idea I got from Wittgenstein's tractatus, namely that true knowledge as a rule is based on tautology. In other words that you can only know what is given to you as an axiom (or some other formulation of the same thing).

So, if you believe in this idea as a premise, then proving that P = NP would involve reformulating the statement " The solution of Problem A can be check for correctness in n iterations" to "Problem A can be solved in n iterations" My paper used that point as a premise and went on to prove that such reformulation is impossible.





I could not remove my self-doubt (and neither I wanted to), and the dreadful feeling that my my life and everything I can possibly say or do was not worth anything, but if I tried to, I felt that I could lessen the feeling of pretence that I actually felt was at its (the self-doubt's) root. After all, why a person would even bother to feel self-doubt if they didn't take themselves too seriously in the first place? We only doubt the things that we rely on, and that is clearly not so because there is no reason for us to doubt the rest, it is just that most of the time we don't bother ourselves with doing so. Is our practice of taking ourselves so seriously just a survival mechanism, a way not to float away from the "sane"? If so, then Anna's ironic gesture was probably the best reaction to everything that I did in the last year (althought she herself was one hundred percent the same as me), I was confident that I was brilliant, or at least that I would be brilliant one day, but I was no more brilliant than a person who attempts to build a house in a swamp and thinks that the reason other people missed the lovely spot was their superior perceptions and judgement (or that guy from the Greek myth who flew too close to the sun and fell, if you are looking for a more (over)poetic metaphor). At any rate, I was guilty about everything, the good and the bad stuff, myself. I felt that realizing that was a good start.
