
she also forgave me for bringing them up, and waited very patiently for me to correct my mistakes like a strict teacher who nevertheless really likes for their students to succeed, and she kept guiding me towards the direction she wanted me to head towards, which interestingly was the complete opposite of the one I thought that I should go - I figured that what we should be doing some bonding, you know, sharing our life stories and finding some common ground between us through them, really she seemed to want to escape from the aforementioned stories like from a bad dream, and she absolutely didn't want me to have anything to do with them. She didn't want me in her castle, neither she wanted to get to mine (weird methaphor, but bear with me), but wanted us both to stay outside of ourselves, with our conversations roaming freely from subject to subject without being restrained by our personas.

However, that was harder than I thought, as there were only as much that you can say about a given subject without going to the realm of the personal, and moreover our (at least mine) attempts to escape from ourselves had this weird quality that, the more you concentrate on being objective and detached, the more revealing you actually can be to the trained eye, for example, I feel that a person who has heard me talk about math knows more about me than any person with whom I just had some mundane conversations. That must have something to do with the fact that each system of knowledge is based on some self-evident postulates, and so the more fundamental an assertion is, the closer it is to a postulate i.e. by saying things that we find self-evident we actually expose our core beliefs (and we get nose bleeds). If you talk with me about math, I would tell you that we have to remain optimistic about finding the solution about such and such problem, that computer-generated proofs are a good technology, but they take away the human aspect from the discipline which still should be central to the discipline. And then I'd start telling you about some ideas that I had the previous day. 

Still, as I hinted to Ann, it was also better than the *reverse* kind of envy, which I had noticed that many people have, as it didn't force us to do stupid shit just to attain some made up object of desire. It was demotivating, but it was also peacefull, it left us disillusioned, but at least we weren't wasting our time pursuing illusions that were nothing but a facade behind which was the "same ol' shit" that we knew and hated. 

I was worried whether I sounded authentic, although what does authenticity even mean when it comes to personalities - we all basically say and do things that we have seen somewhere and then we stick with them if they bring us good results. Perhaps authenticity depends on how important results are for us and to what extend they define our behaviour? That seemed crucial, at least, speaking for myself, I am positive that the importance placed on results was certainly a huge factor for the forming of my personality at school where everyone were obsessed by results, so much so that I sometimes felt that nobody there actually carred about math and that the fact that we were doing math (and not physics, philosophy art etc.) was of secondary importance - the modus operanti of our school could have been the same with any other discipline, and we ourselves (the students) would have been exactly the same people. At that moment, this idea made me sad - we had spent numerous years at perfecting something that we never learned to care about in the first place (although I did and still do care about math). 

"You would be surprised, but I actually *want* to fall. I *want* to get hurt. Without hurt, your body loses contact with the environment and you become lame."

"It is all very limiting. Reality is limiting, living is like participating in a race that there is no way for you to win, but at the same time you have to participate in."

Some people like blond girls, I like you.

I want to unwrap you like a present

At that point I came across a distinction between me and Alex, that I thought was interesting- that I had spend my life falling in love with women, while he spent it fucking them. 

Cathy's tactic was that she never ever tried to reconcile the real and the ideal and be pragmatic instead, i.e. concentrating on the sexual aspect of love, as opposed to searching for its meaning, and in school as I mentioned, she were concentrating on giving the teachers what they wanted, instead of trying to understand the disciplines better than they did, which, kids, is never a good idea if your aim is good grades. 

The feeling that I ended up experiencing towards her (although also strong) was different - if vanilla romantic love had for me the effect of an atom bomb dropped, as it indeed did, the way Ann made me feel was more like a wildfire - there was an air of mystery in it (which you never know how it started nor when and now it would end), and also an air of permanence, as some of the last remains of that fire burned remained long after both her and me (the person that I was then) were gone, illuminating my whole world. 


As I was talking, Anna finally sat closer to me and tried to establish some contact with me, but I blocked her. I tried to convince myself that I didn't care, although if I had known her in my normal life as my classmate or something, I would have probably hopelessly fallen in love with her and would have spent hours just selecting the books that I would "accidentally" drop when I pass near her at the corridor. 


I was so drawn to my fantasies in my private time, simply because in the rest of the time I was fulfilling other people's fantasies. I got used to it so much that that was all I did. Even with Cathy, I realise, like everybody else does, that I am copying her in every aspect of her life, but it is not so much because I admire her, as they think, as it is because I want *her* to feel that there is someone who understands her, I want her to not feel alone."

But how is that possible, that we cannot get away? Maybe we are just mistaking what quitting means, thinking that we are escaping when we are actually just walking the same old road, removing everything else but that which is our problem. Because the problem is our blind spot. Because we identify this problem with ourselves.

Because if the point of sex is cumming, then what is the point of love, aside from getting your heart broken.


that were twisting their minds, making them delusional with those weird ideas like that they posess knowledge that the others didn't, while all they really did was concentrating at one detail, at a mere leaf falling from the crown of a gigantic three and insisting that this very leaf represented the tree in a way so complete that all they needed to do was to understand the leaf, and they will know more about the tree than the person who climbed it. 


Correction - the ability to focus, *but not too much*, And Anna was very good at focusing - I even feel that was the reason for her lack of success at school, at least compared to Cathy's - she studied the subjects so meticulously that she constantly came across all kinds of discrepancies, stemming both from errors on the side of the people who taught the subjects and from deficiencies of the subjects themselves. She always had issues with foundations of economics, foundations of statistics and the foundations of almost anything else - and especially the fairy-tale aspects of them (like for example, in economics, the idea that all people will always want more and more). In order for her to understand a subject she would have to spend years on it, and even then she would be less certain of her knowledge than Cathy, who would never take any of these problems seriously. 
