Chapter 1
====

Alex, Who am I, Church and Turing, Being stupid, The nerd identity, X, Social code, Anna, 

"Call me Alex!", he said that while standing up just next to the bed he was probably occupying naked from the waist up, and smiling with a childish smile. I thought he was over-friendly, but his voice was so loud and firm, that I could not think of an appropriate semi-sarcastic response which I could use to distance myself from him, without being rude ("OK", "If you insist", etc.), so I just shook his hand and started a regular conversation, asking him how old he was, for how long had he been staying there etc. but to my surprise, although still very friendly, he wasn't at all eager to answer my questions, and it even seemed that some of them he did not know the answers of. So unusual were his reactions that for the first few days I had the suspicion that he might be "really insane" - a fact which understandably made me uncomfortable, especially since, given the fact that both of us were under the same circumstances, such categorizations were far from objective. My mind could help but think that probably *I* was insane and he was the normal one, and he seemed insane to me thus.

Alex had a huge scar on his left knee which I noticed immediately when I saw him and which made me want to immediately distance myself from him even more. An urge which did not dissolve even after I learned that he got it in a trivial way (sports incident) and was even strengthened by my realization that it weren't the scar, nor his cheerfulness which crept me out, it was his hair, the way he wanted to shake hands, and all the other numerous ways in which he looked just like me. 

"So what do you do for fun?" I asked, consciously trying to distance myself from him by emphasizing our differences by talking about my weird hobbies which I was sure would be to him most alien, "I like to read". But he just gave me a thumbs up and changed the subject leaving me with no choice but to make friends with him. I usually pick my friends very carefully, never approaching them until they have passed some of my elaborate mental tests, like imagining them in hard situations and seeing how would they escape from them, or, perhaps more importantly, imagining us hanging out together and assessing if we look cool enough. It was true that recently I started abandoning this practice, but that was not because I didn't want for my friends to conform to my criteria, rather it was because I just started realizing that I was too bad at judging the people around me for me to provide a decent enough assessment. But that line of reasoning didn't apply to Alex, as he was clearly not a person whom I could interest in any of my hobbies, science, hard nor soft, and neither with any of my other interests, which meant that although he seemed accepting, he could not be a person who can be anything more than my roommate.

"And who are you?" Alex's voice was so loud that it somehow got into my head and made me replay all kinds of memories that I thought identified my personality, like my acceptance in the Sofia Mathematics College (where I have been studying for the past few years), and also things that I wanted to forget but could not, like my first poor mark which I got shortly after my admission in the same school, which was the first time I tasted marijuana. I don't know why, but I couldn't get rid of that memory, although the occasion was completely uneventful. Perhaps it was because of my obsession to always have control over my behavior and, if possible, over everything around me. And then I though, maybe it was this obsession, and not my obsession with mathematics, which was the defining characteristic of my personality. Perhaps if Alex were indeed interested in who am I, I would have to tell him that story and how terrible I felt then. It was not the fact that I was high that unnerved me - it was the fact that I could not stop being high on command and transition to whatever state I wanted to be in a given moment - that is what I would have told Alex if he was really interested in me, but he of course wasn't - he just wanted to know my name, and as for the fact that I was a control freak, seeing the way he was looking at me he, had probably already gotten it by then.

"Sorry, I am a bit of a dork" I said trying to apologize for not responding to his very simple request, while at the same time spicing up my persona with some self-irony. "It's OK, me too" he responded softly. Although I was almost sure that he was doing it just to make me feel good, his response actually offended me in several ways: firstly because he chose to take what I said literary, as opposed to the joke which it partly was and secondly because he chose to agree with it instead of trying to convince me that I was wrong. And the fact that he assumed the dork identity actually made it worse, as it looked like he was doing it just because he pitied me, which was the last thing that I needed. 

Had he been a real dork, his gesture would have been gladly accepted by me, only he actually seemed like the exact opposite - one only needed to see the way he stood up - calm, fearless, not feeling a single bit of shame over his naked body (in which there also wasn't anything to be ashamed about) to see that any of my issues such as the ones I mentioned above would for him be most alien. He seemed to me like a person who, for example, when rejected by a girl whom he wanted to date would, not feel less crushed and more surprised by the occurrence of so unlikely an event. This was the way I perceived Alex, although I was sure that this wasn't the whole truth especially since he was here with me - to him maybe his issues were serious, just as my issues were serious for me. 

Had we been able to switch places for some time, we both would have probably been able to realize that and live the rest of our lives care-free, not needing any kind of therapy. This thought were, for some time, so vivid that made me want to actually switch places with him and not only figuratively - I had to become as strong as him, and as confident as him and to adopt his character, only so I can then better appreciate my own character to which I would go back to after a couple of months - a process which, I imagined, would cure me from all kinds of anxiety forever. Only after I spoke with Alex for a couple of hours had I realized that it was very hard to do - his personality was becoming even more illogical for me with every new piece of information I was learning about him, his decision to make friends with me being the most illogical of them all.

"You want to meet with my girlfriend and her friends?" he asked me while I was looking at my opened suitcase. I pointed at my luggage and smiled half-jokingly laughing at him. Of course I did not want to go anywhere, I had just arrived and I have work to do. I smiled for a few seconds more, but he just smiled back and continued talking about his girlfriend (she was coming from a rich family, she was always looking very sexy, even in her uniform etc.) with a smile on his face and I started imagining that he was actually laughing back at me, thinking something like "What kind of loser would spend his evening tidying up his clothes, where there are so much more interesting things to do". It was as if his whole posture was dictating these words to me and one had to just find a systematic way to analyze it in order to spell them out. And so I said "OK" and I went out with him.
We leave the room and turn walk in the direction opposite to the one from which I came, going through a big corridor which resembles the one from my school where the classrooms are. I hear all kinds of sounds coming from the direction where we are headed - footsteps, music, and also numerous different voices, all shouting and having conversations. I panic as I realize that I am about to make my first "public appearance" to the people in the facility. I try to calm myself by saying to myself with a smug voice (which is, for some reason, the way I usually talk to myself) that I most likely surpass those people in any respect conceivable, and so all I have to do to make a good impression is to act natural, only to realize that I don't even know what it means to act natural in this facility, and I hardly got any clues from my encounter with Alex. I try glancing at him, and trying to see the expression he would adopt before entering, only to realize that he is already a few steps in front of me and going so fast that I almost have to run just to keep up with his pace, and observing the difference between the way we move reminds me of the even bigger difference between the way we are seen by the others makes it apparent that sticking with him is not a good strategy. So what, should I act to the people here in the same way as I act to my classmates? The question reminds me that the way in which classmates usually act towards each other is much different from the way they do it at my school - I study in a very prestigious school, so the spirit that dictates our actions is that of competitiveness - it is all about who knows more and who can do more in a framework that is almost as rigorously-defined as the subject matter which it puts to the test. In other words, my behavior was always based on a precise set of goals, something which I am sure I won't see here, except if just "getting better" counted as a goal, and it most definitely could not (if I had time I would have spent a few seconds just to appreciate the irony of the fact that letting myself slip, for just a few hours, from the very strict environment that I have placed into when I was admitted at my school, has put me into an environment that, as far as I could see, contained no rules whatsoever. But maybe it was just me being too quick to judge).

As we get closer to the door I start seeing the people in the hallway. The way they act resembles the one in *a* school, but it definitely is unlike *my* school, where everyone just sits there and rest on their shoulders because they are tired, or alternatively talk if not to about the things we study, about computer games or problems that are probably formally equivalent to the things we study. I continue talking, considering the different ways in which I can act - should I walk with Alex and meet his friends first, which was what I was set out to do originally, or should I take some time to wander through the hallway to look around and be like "Sorry, I just want to hang around for a sec, it's OK, if you don't wish to wait for me then, maybe we can meet after". Should I quickly find my crowd (or the one that resembles it most) and ditch everyone else, or should I try to make my best to find unlikely friendships with Alex's circle? Without me noticing, this dilemma has become a *leitmotif* of my life: should I be more like Allan Turing - passionate, giving a voice to my ideas, as weird as they can be, and live a life with a lot of ups and downs, or like Alonzo Church - pragmatic and disciplined and always following a strict plan. You could observe how both approaches worked for both of those people by studying their biographies (Turing slept around with younger men and got into huge trouble about it, and ultimately killed himself / nothing really notable about Church's life), but for me, it is much more important to consider how they influenced their work, In fact this is why I picked exactly those two people who, if you don't know, where the first to devise formal models capturing the concepts of an "alghorithm" and "computation". Look into Turing Machine - a weird, you might say convoluted model and try to compare them with the Alonzo's solution, as simple and elegant as the symbol, (the only symbol!) that contains its gist - the Greek letter lambda. True, Alonzo was much more spot on, nailing the concept of computation without any kind of ceremony, but Turing Machines - they answer the question they are set out to answer, but also answer, and raise, so many other questions that they change the direction that the whole field took. But although I am always eager to apply it, that whole Church/Turing dichotomy was never of much use for my life - beside the fact that I cannot decide who's side I am on (Turing machines are cooler, but at the same time I lean towards Church simply, because his life was more stress-free) I always seem to be put in situations where neither approach seems feasible, or it is hard to differentiate which is which, like right now following Alex would be Turingy, because I would be meeting people who I wouldn't normally meet, but at the same time abandoning Alex would be Turingy, as well, him being the only (friendly) person I know. In short, I often realize that I am thinking in a given way just for the sake of thinking in this way - maybe it is not the choice I make between Church and Turing, but the dichotomy between them itself that defines my life. It (the dichotomy) certainly defined the way I acted as we reached the room and the first impressions that I made to the people there - a few moments after we entered I realized that there were some people staring at me, while I was still contemplating how should I behave, gazing at the ceiling like a complete idiot. 

Still I wasn't *certain* that I looked stupid - I was like any other person who sees everyone being stupid and ridiculous all the time and has the sneaking suspicion that they too, conversely, are sometimes stupid, but are never really sure of it with their heart although the data no doubt shows it to be the case. As if me being stupid was something that is highly unlikely, like those events in American movies where they always say "Impossible!" "I checked the calculations three times!", before they realize what we spectators already know from the trailer (meteors, zombies, aliens etc) and even in those situations people end up believing, whereas nobody really believes they are stupid, except if they think that the way that they are being stupid is not stupid to them. It seemed to me that we, people, are defined by our imperfections, and, although they make us self-appauled, we insist on them as we insist to be heard when we speak even if we don't have anything substantial to say. We do this although we know that we know that it is pointless, although we know that who we are doesn't matter, just for a lack of a better thing to do.

As I was standing there, someone touched my back with their finger, and when I turned to him, made an awkward gesture which I could decode only because it looked too much like my own gestures when I was nervous (another way to put is that both he an I looked like a robots, programmed by a 5-year-olds). It was a boy called Peter who evidently was as nerdy as me and evidently felt as out of place as I did, although he had been in the facility for a lot longer (a few weeks, weird that he didn't know how many). We talked for several minutes (sci-fi movies, manga, science trivia) after which he became very enthusiastic, he even mentioned that it's possible to switch roommates so we can live together, and when he saw that my only response was to shake my head, he felt confused and obliged to end the conversation: "See you around, happy to talk to a fellow nerd!" to which my response was just wave at him and carry on. I preferred not to disclose to him the reason for my lack of enthusiasm - it wasn't because I could not articulate it, mind you, I just was aware that he would most probably perceive it the wrong way. It was obvious that he strongly identified with the nerd community, it was obvious that I identified with it myself, but what he would not get was that I wasn't related to it in the same way: when I grew up (and where I grew up), there was no such thing as nerd community at all, at least as far as most people were concerned - we were sometimes hanging around, playing games or having interdisciplinary conversations, but we never attempted to divide ourselves from the rest of the people - the only attempts to divide us was coming the other way, from people who were intimidated by our weirdness, but being marginalized made us much richer - there were history nerds, font nerds, there were people who were nerds for music and other types of art and all of us were together, connected by a set of rules that were unspoken, but universally understood in a way that was shared on a much deeper level than sci-fi fandom, ironic t-shirts, and involvement in the IT startup scene (just because that wasn't an option). The traditional nerd image that we know today (glasses, pop-culture reference) was created during a cultural shift that began, I would say, with the release of the Windows 95 operating system (which coincidentally was what made the Stanford nerd Bill Gates the richest person on Earth) and ended with when Disney brought the Star Wars franchise in 2012, and is largely the lowest common denominator of the qualities that curious people really posses (where many of those people still excluded from for various reasons) in order to make sure that certain people complied with us (in retrospect all we'd wanted from them was to leave us alone) we had to explain to other people who "we" were, and being timid and hard with words we didn't really do a good job at it, worse - we left big movie studios and other huge companies to create that identity for us.

Or maybe the reason we didn't want to define ourselves (really the reason we were timid and hard with words in the first place) was that we understood on some level that assuming an identity, group or otherwise, forced us to constrain the way we could act, and indeed who we were in the first place - something that, if it wasn't obvious before, was very obvious for me then - I was able to see it in every movement that Peter made, and I was able to use it to explain any aspect in which the nerd culture changed in the last years (e.g. why the type of people who 20 years ago wanted to be Einsteins now want to be Zukenbergs), but above all, it helped me realize that, without realizing it, I and all people around me had gotten much more vocal and self-assertive. 

Meeting Peter and other people in the room (two girls that were almost constantly laughing, and the one who approached me first, but after that was very reluctant to talk with me) made me introspective and I started thinking about how all that identity had affected my character. The transition from thinking of the general phenomenon to thinking of my personal story felt like a swap, a second one after the one I experienced when I entered the facility, and just as strong - I realized that, although I thought that I had been moving well above the naive concept of identity, I had actually at the very center of it, and that the terrible way I felt since I got in the facility corresponded with the way I was treating the people I was meeting - from Alex, whom I was trying to ditch after the first "hello" to Peter, everyone I put under the same category, as if I was inhibiting a world, in which there weren't other people but me and my classmates who at that time felt just like my copies. And my dissatisfaction with Peter's way of acting suddenly felt like not much more than a pretense, the desire to be "nerdier than nerd" in order to gain some points in a game in which I was the only player and also the only spectator. Looking at the room and realizing that I was in a new place with new people suddenly felt extremely liberating for me as the people, although they were looking the same from the surface, started escaping from the simple stereotypes that I had assigned to them at the start and were quickly becoming interesting and mysterious, like the unknowns in a huge nontrivial equation, describing some interesting physics problem, for example. And the biggest unknown, the one I had to solve the equation for was, of course, myself. 

That thought reminded me of a certain incident that happened when I was little and getting my first taste of math with high-school algebra. At that time I was grounded for having "MAXIM", written with all caps on the door of my room with spray paint and my punishment was to do all problems in one math text book, most of which were a variation of one and the same problem - solve for x. I managed to finish all of the problems that same evening (I am most productive when I have just want to make the work get away) , but just as I was happy that I was no longer grounded I glimpsed at the door and noticed how the x the symbol which I have been solving for all night, was at the center of my name. For some reason, that coincidence got me so fascinated - I took the spray can again and, I extended the contours of the "X" all the way to the four corners of the door. At that moment, everything in this story seemed alien to me then, from why was I playing with spray cans in the house, to why was I fascinated with the symbol "X" (I am pretty sure I was already aware of the insignificance of the choice of notation symbols in mathematics, to why did I do something that was guaranteed to get me in trouble, and for this reason I decided to use it as a symbol of the person who I was when I was a child and that I would not concentrate on anything else until I establish again (or for the first time ever) a connection with this person.
"I hate this place" I heard the voice of Alex who'd suddenly found himself right next to me (although most likely he had actually been there all along, just without me noticing) "You wanna go for a smoke? Sometimes we go in the backyard, to smoke," he waved his hand, pointing at an opened window, which, because we were at the ground floor, could be used as a door leading towards the yard - a gesture that, although delivered with a quite plain and emotionless tone of voice stroke me as most flattering, not only because inviting me with him, meant that he believed me to be better than the rest of the people in the room, a more worthy company etc, but more importantly he saw me as all that without knowing almost anything about me, a fact that I actually found irreconcilable with the way I imagined that social code worked in general - in my mind each social circle or clique had a certain set of principles, like the principle of competitiveness in my school, which I sometimes saw as the axioms of a formal system, and some criteria for acceptance for its members that were derived from these principles not only provided control over who had access to the group, but more importantly created a social context for the conversations that were to take place there. Inviting random people to a group meant that it did not adhere to such principles, which in turn meant that there everything was possible in terms of social context (just like in logic everything can follow from falsehood). The invite, in that respect was a *carte blanche* for me to act in whatever way I decided and be whoever I pleased. And not only that, but it constituted the encouragement to do so. With it, Alex was saying that he not only liked me, but he would potentially like any of the people that could be living in my brain, which were, otherwise, completely different, save for the fact that all of them liked slipping annoying math metaphors into any innocent train of thought (and also all of them would have like that joke as well, I think).

I took Alex's hand (he was helping me go through the window) and then I turned around and saw that the girl who I talked to a few minutes ago was right behind me, this was the one who looked somewhat reluctant to talk to me, after we exchanged a few initial words, but at that time her enthusiasm had returned and she was laving at me. After I was out, Alex reached out to help her, but she ignored his hand and jumped from the window herself in a very clumsy manner, almost hitting me and almost falling off her feet in the process. Later, when I would get very close, even intimately close with this girl (Anna) I would understand that she ignored Alex's help mainly because of the self-esteem issues, but then it seemed to me that she was just being snobbishly-individualistic (which was often the same thing but at that time I didn't know *that* as well) and so I was immediately drawn to her, albeit partially unsuccessful, attempt to show us that we are useless and herself - independent. 

While Anna was still getting up and fixing her dress, Alex rushed towards the fence and left me alone with her. The noises from the room had almost completely fainted when we exited the building, resulting in a silence which was making me uneasy, but which, due to my despise for small talk, I didn't know how to break without making the situation even more uncomfortable, "So what are you in for?" I heard Anna's question which, if I were sat, would have made me jump from my chair, but was at the same time it was exactly the kind of thing that I would have asked her if I weren't afraid she would consider it completely inappropriate, "I was caught with a few marijuana cigarettes," I told her the short version, "And you?", but instead of answering she just waved her hand in an ironic gesture that was very customary to her and told me something like "You know, the usual stuff," in a tone of voice that almost made me uncomfortable that I don't know what the usual stuff is, but at the same time angered me, like all those math textbooks and white papers that would introduce a theorem or some other kind of result without giving any kind of reference, whose authors I'd always considered full of shit, regardless if they refraining from citing their sources out of laziness, or out of some desire to show us that they are so smart and educated, that for them stuff like this is so obvious that it goes without saying. I initially, meant to show my annoyance by just ending the conversation, as I usually do, but the reverse idea also came to mind, as if coming from some shadowy alter ego of mine who (the alter ego) also took over my decision process and proceeded to act on my behalf - "Sorry, what's that 'usual stuff'?" I said, with a tone that didn't sound a least bit apologetic. "You are very handsome," her response/reaction was weird, and it left me overwhelmed, so much as to even consider whether she did it just to close my mouth to prevent me from asking about what did she do, but the possibility that she was playing didn't even matter that much to me, as, even if I hadn't mentioned it by now, Anna was pretty too - clothes, hair, makeup, body silhouette had all been accounted, as well as the mannerisms without which one could not be considered (even with  all of the above factors) truly female.
