Outside, Reality changing

Anna went immediately to Alex without ever paying attention to her friend who were sitting right in his lap "I need a cigarette!" she said, disregarding, or even enjoying the fact that Catherina would have to stand from her comfortable position at the lap of her boyfriend in order for him to pull out his pack, and when went on shouting and waving her hands, making me feel at loss when I remembered our previous, very pleasant conversation. There was something very theatrical in her gesture, and it seemed like she was doing it regularly judging from the way in which Alex immediately proceeded to give her what she wanted while Catherina just ignored her on her own right with a grimace that showed boredom and turned to me instead, "Ah, Alex, you brought a friend, nice," she said and then asked me for my name, at which point I decided to tell them the story about how I was grounded for painting my name on my room's door when I was little and how I then made it to one big "X" sign. "Nice story, but 'X', that sounds a bit lame, overloaded, I'd say," Catherina said when she heard the ending, but before I had time to clarify that my point wasn't to adopt the letter as a nickname Anna entered the conversation: "You have no taste, it's awesome!" with which, although she said it just to annoy her friend, cemented this nickname for a long time.

We went on gossiping and drinking the whiskey that Catherina had brough and Anna went on insisting (although neither Alex nor Catherina seemed to share her centiment) how awful everything in the facility was and how she wanted to get away from it, until neither them, nor even myself could stand listening to her any more, a fact which I, at some point, decided to express by standing up, pointing to a whole in the fence right next to us, which I had noticed earlier, and saying "Fine, let's go." This act left everyone in silence, making it apparent that none did get the joke. "Yeah, very funny, but I don't want to have a private spanking session with Stella," Anna responded, but then Catherina cut her in a way analogous to the one in which Anna had cut Caterina a couple of minutes ago,"Why, what is she to do, kick us out?" and then she elaborated, explaining that the huge taxes that her parents pay for us made either our exclusion, or any form of severe punishment highly unlikely and she went on to elaborate that this was the main reason why the private education was at the state that it was while she was finishing up Alex's bottle of alcohol, "The issue is that the quality of education is not all that important for economic growth, especially amongst the upper class. In capitalism such institutions are marginalized. Up to a point where they exist only because of tradition," she stayed silent for a minute and then she appeared to remember what triggered her monologue and stood up from the bench, "So we can't get punished. Let's make use of this privilege, it is one of the few ones that we have!" she stood up and crossed the fence. Anna seemed devastated at first, not only by the way in which Catherina had cut her, but by the fact that she had to break the rules to remain with her. Later I would learn that Ann, although seemingly detached from reality actually felt a very strong need to identify with someone else from it, a need that was probably unexplicable to her as it was to us. 

I asked Catherina about what she meant by saying that not being punished is one of the few privileges that she had, as by that time I already knew she was super rich and she became very introspectic, "Well, the rich have their privileges, obviously, but you only get them if you are part of the rich. For which you must adjust every aspect of your lifestyle. Maybe it's for better, but you still have no choice like you are stuck in a very beautiful place, but one which is covered in all sides with fences, up to a point it starts to feel like a prison and if you view it like this you have almost no priviliges, save for the fact that whenever you see a hole in the fence you are free to escape for a little, before they find out and patch it up. 

And after this we all went outside, Catherina who had seen a hole, Anna, who prefered to follow Catherina, Alex, who probably was unaware of the difference between inside and outside and me, most amazingly, for no reason at all.



As we got farther from the facility, I realized that my actions were shifting my perception of reality - a phenomenon which I hadn't noticed by then and which certainly wouldn't have predicted. 


"Look, I understand why you like her, you are both a bit off, so maybe you would go well together" was his response, but I didn't find it quite usefull - from mathematics I have learned that we too often tend to group things that we don't understand into very broad categories, that don't have any equivalence in the real world.
