Anna's proposition/Anna and Cathy
I made a pause to gather my thoughts and stared back to Anna whom I had almost forgotten I was speaking to, but who was nevertheless still listening to me with what it looked like fascination. I made up my mind about what I wanted to say next, but didn't proceed, as she (although silent) looked like she wanted to tell me something. I stared back to Alex and Catherine for a few seconds and then back at her to give her time.

"OK, I think I am ready to sleep with you!"

This line left me both shocked and flattered (and also feeling a variety of other emotions but shock) was all that came out from my immediate reaction - it was a typical mathematicians' shock, one of a person who cannot escape from the daunting feeling that they got something wrong, a shock that, although useful when solving maths problems, had gotten me in a lot of issues in social situations, as although the way you react wouldn't make any difference when you are standing in a room facing a white sheet of paper (or one that has some lines written and then crossed out), the situation is quite different when you are with another person - in this case, as I learned later, your primal reactions are, for a variety of reasons, best kept suppressed, depending of course of what your goal is, or whether you have one.

In my situation, I didn't have any goal, but still I managed to disappoint myself of myself : I started throwing stupid questions at Anna ("But why?", "Didn't you said you are a virgin?") which made her feel more uncomfortable then if I had turned down her suggestion (which wasn't even a suggestion, but just a comment) and at the same time robed me of the possibility to agree to it. Ultimately, I made her retract from her message of thrust, and, perhaps, lust for me. Whatever it was that she felt, she no longer felt it or at least she didn't want to express it in the way she wanted to express it originally. Instead she apologized in a way that made it sound like wanting to sleep with someone is some kind of insult and then went on to blame her "outburst" on the stress she felt from her time in the facility and on Catherine, whom she continued talking for the whole time we were walking, claiming that the only reason she wanted to sleep with me was because Catherine was obviously sleeping with Alex and she was always subconsciously copying her. 

It was then, when I learned the whole story: Anna's parents were long-time friends with Catherine's and had been comparing the two children's development since they were infants, however Catherine's parents became much richer and successful over the years which made Anna's parents all the more demanding towards their only daughter and more determined to use her success as a way to get back to Catherine's parents (who also didn't have other children), so when she started falling behind in terms of school grades, she was quick to find herself taking private lessons, of course at the same place where Catherine was going. At first, she tried to emulate some aspects of the idealized version of Catherine that her parents were seeing - one that neither got high, nor went to parties as the real Catherine did (up to a point she was pretty successful at leading her double life without anyone knowing), and she quickly realized that it (this version) was completely made up and incompatible with reality. However instead of impelling her to abandoning the goal, this realization made Anna to know more  and be more like the real Catherine. So at one point when Catherine went out for a drink, she pretended that she had wanted to try alcohol for a long time but didn't have anyone to provide her with it and then, after they got drunk together, pretended that she liked it very much and she wanted to try again. But even being close with Catherine didn't help Anna from feeling like she was "missing the point" as she herself put it that night - "The thing that unnerved me is that everything about her was move vivid, she was better than me both in studying *and* in having fun, you know? And in terms of personality, all I had was my dirty chats and she slept till 2 PM each Saturday, I didn't even dare to ask her how she had spend her Fridays evening." 

My response was rude, but the naivety of her last remark made me want to put a stop to all this train of thought: "Perhaps crying in despair and trying to kill herself?" I said, as earlier I had learned that this were indeed the day and hour when it had happened. "No, I had spoken to her about that once, this whole thing about the suicide attempt there are many things about it that are just an extrapolation, they are not real!", she said initially but when I reminded her that one thing which was real was that  she was found nearly dead the next day she retracted: "True, but let me ask you something:  didn't *you* want to kill yourself at some point? And if yes, than  what made you hesitate to do it? Your strong will to live? Or just simple fear?" and when I told her that there is nothing wrong with fear: "There is nothing wrong, I never said that there was. But there is also nothing wrong in overcoming it."

That last line made me stop the conversation with Anna, or rather to continue it in the form of a monologue and without sharing the result to her. I ended it by telling her that I didn't think she was in any way wrong. What I didn't tell her for fear of being misunderstood  was that she didn't have to copy anyone in order to be strong, nor did she have to kill herself in order to overcome her fears, but that was because I myself was (and am) unsure of it in the same way as I am unsure how being alive compares with being dead. The only thing I was sure was that this relationship (the one between Anna and Catherine) *felt* wrong to me. Indeed, at that moment I thought that any attempt to emulate a person, living or imaginary, was wrong as I felt that it cannot ever be successful, but why so, again I didn't know - was it that our brain somehow always picking up the wrong aspect, the wrong person, the wrong way to imitate, or was it the way the world is build that forbids our personalities from being modeled after any kind of other representation, like that mysterious second law of thermodynamics, that destroys any possible pattern in any possible system, making sure that nothing that makes sense for us stays that way for long. At any rate, our uniqueness was perhaps the single biggest source of stress in our life, as well as potential source of joy which, however, few of us knew how to use.

I wanted to tell Anna something incredibly authentic, something that would at once get her away from all the troubles that she was soaked into, but I couldn't think of anything. My failure left me anxious and thinking that someone would notice that we are missing, but we actually arrived pretty quickly and nobody seemed to care that we had left which again made me anxious - before that going outside seemed like a rebellious act, now it looked more like a useless wander that we underwent for a lack of better things to do. Alex and Cathy kissed for a minute before she let him go to our room to help me pick up my stuff. While I was folding my sheets I asked him whether I should sleep with Anna. "I understand why you like her you are both a bit off, so maybe you would go well together" was his response, but I didn't find it very useful - besides the fact that "People that A finds weird" (A being Alex or anyone else) was not an *objective* category, but one that is inherently related to A, it was also based on a negative predicate (weird, being non-normal), so it was probably an arbitrarily large category, much larger than any category that A would build in a constructive way (like "people that look like my mom" (if Anna is reading this, I swear that there was no hidden meaning in the choice of example)). Still, it (Alex's response) sounded, authentic and honest, and because of that - reassuring, almost making me want to get together with all people that Alex finds weird, and feeling happy that I will meet at least one of them.
