I made a pause to gather my thoughts and stared back to Anna whom I had almost forgotten I was speaking to, but who was nevertheless stil listening to me with what it looked like a fascination. I made up my mind about what I wanted to say next, but didn't proceed, as she (although silent) looked like she wanted to tell me something. I stared back to Alex and Catherina for a few seconds and then back at her to give her time.

"OK, I think I am ready to sleep with you!"

This line left me both shocked and flattered (and also feeling a variety of other emotions but shock) was all that came out from my immediate reaction - it was a typical mathematicians' shock, one of a person who cannot escape from the dounting feeling that they got something wrong, a shock that, although useful when solving maths problems, had gotten me in a lot of issues in social situations, as although the way you react wouldn't make any difference when you are stanging in a room facing a white sheet of paper (or one that has some lines written and then crossed out), the situation is quite different when you are with another person - in this case, as I learned later, your primal reactions are, for a variety of reasons, best kept supressed, depending of course of what your goal is, or whether you have one.

In my situation, I didn't have any goal, but still I managed to disappoint myself of myself : I started throwing stupid questions at Anna ("But why?", "Didn't you said you are a virgin?") which made her feel more uncomfortable then if I had turned down her suggestion (which wasn't even a suggestion, but just a comment) and at the same time robed me of the possibility to agree to it. Ultimately, I made her retract from her message of thrust, and, perhaps, lust for me. Whatever it was that she felt, she no longer felt it or at least she didn't want to express it in the way she wanted to express it originally. Instead she apologized in a way that made it sound like wanting to sleep with someone is some kind of insult and then went on to blame her "outburst" on the stress she felt from her time in the facility and on Catherina, whom she continued talking for the whole time we were walking, claiming that the only reason she wanted to sleep with me was because Catherina was obviously sleeping with Alex and she was always subconsciously copying her. 

It was then, when I learned the whole story: Anna's parents were long-time friends with Catherina's and had been comparing the two children's development since they were infants, however Catherina's parents became much richer and successful over the years which made Anna's parents all the more demanding towards their only daughter and more determined to use her success as a way to get back to Catherina's parents (who also didn't have other children), so when she started falling behind in terms of school grades, she was quick to find herself taking private lessons, of course at the same place where Catherina was going. At first, she tried to emulate some aspects of the idealized version of Catherina that her parents were seeing - one that neither got high, nor went to parties as the real Catherina did (up to a point she was pretty successful at leading her double life without anyone knowing), and she quickly realized that it (this version) was completely made up and incompatible with reality. However instead of impelling her to abandoning the goal, this realization made Anna to know more  and be more like the real Catherina. So at one point when Catherina went out for a drink, she pretended that she had wanted to try alcohol for a long time but didn't have anyone to provide her with it and then, after they got drunk together, pretended that she liked it very much and she wanted to try again. But even being close with Catherina didn't help Anna from feeling like she was "missing the point" as she herself put it that night - "The thing that unnerved me is that everything about her was move vivid, she was better than me both in studying *and* in having fun, you know? And in terms of personality, all I had was my dirty chats and she slept till 2 PM each Saturday, I didn't even dare to ask her how she had spend her Fridays evening." 

My response was rude, but the naivity of her last remark made me want to put a stop to all this train of thought: "Perhaps crying in despair and trying to kill herself?" I said, as earlier I had learned that this were indeed the day and hour when it had happened. "No, I had spoken to her about that once, this whole thing about the suicide attempt is just an extrapolation, it's not real!", but when she said that she was in fact really found nearly dead the next day she quickly admitted that she was wrong. "Let me ask you something though," she continued, "didn't *you* want to kill yourself at some point? And what made you hesitate to do it? Your strong will to live, or just simple fear?" and when I told her that there is nothing wrong with fear she continued defendin her friend: "There is nothing wrong indeed, I never said there was. But there is also nothing wrong in overcoming it."

That last line made me stop the conversation with Anna, or rather to continue it in the form of a monologue and without sharing the result to her. I ended it by telling her that I didn't think she was in any way wrong. What I didn't tell her was that she didn't have to copy anyone in order to be strong, nor to kill herself in order to overcome her fears, but that was because I myself was (and am) unsure of it in the same way as I am unsure how being alive compares with being dead. The only thing I was sure was that this relationship (the one between Anna and Catherina) *felt* wrong to me. Indeed, at that moment any attempt to emulate a person, living or imaginary, seemed wrong to me, as I felt that by their very nature it cannot ever be successful. I didn't tell her that too, as I didn't know why it was so. Was it that our brain that always picks up the wrong aspect, the wrong person, the wrong type of goal? Or is it the way the world is build that forbids our personalities from being modelled after any kind of other representation, like the mysterious second law of thermodynamics, that destroys any possible pattern in any possible system making sure that nothing that makes sense for us stays here for very long.


And not only that, but it was becoming more and more idealized as both girls were competing with each other - this had led them to the situation that they would meet every day to study together and talk about which college to study in and then abandon one another, Catherina for her drugs and Anna for her kinky alter ego. 

- Women who use sex as a means of attaining prestige
- The way we are sacrifising our personality for the survival of the body.

"Look, I understand why you like her, you are both a bit off, so maybe you would go well together" was his response, but I didn't find it quite usefull - from mathematics I have learned that we too often tend to group things that we don't understand into very broad categories, that don't have any equivalence in the real world.
