Anna's childish behavior/Criticism and adoration

I went to Anna's room and we talked a bit, but she seemed distant, like she was copying Cathy's way of reacting to everything, trying to be witty for no reason and being at the same time shy and over the top with her movements. While I went to my room to pick up my stuff she had put on a very short nightgown, but she seemed to be very uncomfortable in it, constantly pulling the blanket to cover her chest, while taking on impersonal conversations, saying things like "You will meet Jane tomorrow, she is very sweet, a very good person actually." Watching her, I kept thinking that that was the "real" Anna which I was seeing, when Catherine was gone and, I suspect, *because* she was gone - she looked innocent and confused, her posture was not offensive but defensive and, above all, she was extremely well-tempered, even stupidly so, more than Catherine or anyone in her social circle would ever care appreciate - her behavior was that of a kid, of someone who was never disappointed, almost like someone who to some extend cannot be disappointed. It's always strange when someone turns out to be sweet and good when the social masks are off, at first the revelation seems almost scarier than people who are fucking psychopaths underneath, but this occurrence is only natural if you think about it - who has bigger need to wear a mask than a gentle little thing like her.

A little remark that she made that sounded similar to something I myself used to say made me want to remember how I felt when I was like her - as a kid (my childhood lasted longer than that of most other people) and I was putting a lot of effort to be good to everyone, and to fill the mold (or perhaps the cage) that their expectations consisted of, and I was not giving up for a long time, simply because I didn't know that giving up was an option. I treated the feedback from older people around me (teachers, parents etc) as the only form of validation that existed, and them, as the only people who knew what it was to be good. But they were not, and realizing that also made me realize why my efforts to be better were never enough for them, and why they always had their remarks regarding my behavior, most of which were less than favorable no matter how hard I tried - it was because they themselves didn't have the answers regarding what it was to be good, it was because there were no answers and even if there were some, they weren't to be found in the collective conscience that they (older people) were representatives of, but were instead personal and perhaps even intimate, as the answers I found in mathematics, or those I felt when I talked to people about, usually, quite different things. In short, they weren't provoked by criticism, but by acceptance of how the other person thinks and feels. And realizing this helped me realize that it wasn't just that the people who criticized me that are never going to be satisfied (something that every child realizes, sooner or later) but that *I* too wouldn't feel satisfied by following their advice (something too few people realize AFAIK). That the only thing that being susceptible to criticism would do for you is to turn you into a critic yourself, and to make you grumpy (for a lack of a better word). Because when you think about it, what critics do is trying to redefine reality so it works in their favor and that's a lost cause for many reasons: One - reality cannot be redefined so easy (even when we are talking about the reality of just your family or your social circle). And two, even convincing everyone that they should think like you, wouldn't make it *really* so e.g. people who are unhappy with this way of thinking would still be unhappy and all that you would be achieving is shutting down their chance to be fulfilled. Besides, even the most successful critics are still just critics, that is, they just interpret the worldviews of other people (most of which probably didn't feel a particular need to be criticized). 

But still we all judge everyone else around us, even though we know it's stupid, simply because we are built like that. Even (and I'm really ashamed to confess it) *my* first reaction to seeing Anna's naivety, which I luckily managed to suppress, was to tell her that she was being too childish and that she needs to grow up and stuff. Not only was I about to judge her, but criticizing someone for being immature is the worst type of criticism that there is, as with it you are basically saying that they are not as huge of a critic as you (or that they have too much desire for happiness perhaps?) I have this theory (which I am sure you were dying to hear) that the criteria for maturity in a given society is not based on any kind of strength but on *obedience* and on the ability to put up with everything that you need to put up with. Like, for example we don't call "mature" a kid that plays chess at professional tournaments (and neither a young mathematician who is trying to solve the Knapsack problem, mind you) - we keep that label for the kid that is unremarkable in the special way that is not causing us any kind of concern (from this theory it follows that human societies are basically useless and wasteful machines for creating boring robots, but that is another story).

So I was able to detect the "boring robot" behavior on time so I managed to stop myself on time and never said any of those at hindsight awful-sounding things that Anna had probably heard too many times (one is already too many), nor did I go at the equally easy-to-fall-into opposite direction of trying to be the "anti-critic", telling her that it was *her* behavior and her worldview that was the right one and that everyone who criticize her are better off imitating her. No, I might have not known any better in terms of how to free her mind from the cage that being susceptible to criticism has put her into, but I knew enough to know that I couldn't do that by just attacking the people who attacked her and in the same way that they attacked her. I knew that she didn't need me to praise her but to adore her, didn't need to be told that she is correct, but to be told that she is super, that she is OK.

And a clear soul like her's seemed easy to adore. This was kind of paradoxical as she wasn't the type that somebody would typically *choose* to adore, nor was she the kind of person who would even *know* how to be adored at any of the ways that were existed in this world. But once she got tired of those clumsy mannerisms with which she welcomed me (and at which she was so terribly bad at anyways) and saw that I wasn't being impressed by them as well, she quickly stripped them down from herself like a little girl stripping away her mother's old ball gown that she had to wear at a formal event (and who possibly is already wearing sneakers underneath it) and presented herself in a way that was free of melancholy and of the irony that results from it, a self for which adoration was almost the only feeling that I could or needed to feel.

When I say free of irony, I feel I need to elaborate, as I already mentioned Anna was quite ironic, but her irony was of kind which was quite different from the emotion-nubing type you usually see in other people. It was an irony that had no concrete subject, nor an audience that was supposed to "get it" and laugh - it was a general irony, one which was targeted at everything with the purpose of being appreciated by everyone (although not many people actually did), an irony which seemed to perpetuate the natural asymetry of the world and the generall irrelevance of most of the things that we say and think. Her usage of this irony was so pervasive that it looked like the individuality of Anna (the real one, not the clumsy imitation of Cathy that she presented to the world) existed only within its bounds - this was where she was truly beautiful and confident, this was were I felt that I could really admire her and be with her, if I wanted it. This was where all those things were easy - anywhere outside of it they were impossible. Realizing this made me realize that I had to forget everything and try to see things her way, if I wanted to make her feel better.




After a while we heard 
"Do you want to see Dana?" she asked me after a while (Dana was the nickname she used for that dirty profile in that social network that she told me about).
