At first I thought Anna was going to make *me* disappear from her world as well, as soon as I made a mistake or two, like for example in the beginning of the evening when I tried to talk to her about my favorite movies (a topic that I always brought up when I had nothing else to talk about), or shortly after, when she talked me about her relationship with her parents - my initial reaction then was to try to make some weird parallel between me and her and the relationship that I had with my parents and to try to resolve her issues, not because I really believed I can do it (my relation with them wasn't that good anyways), but because I thought that that were the only direction that would make this conversation useful. In hindsight I was obviously way off as I didn't realize that to her every solution created a problem, that every advice was criticism, and every time I tried to get close to her, I'd actually get farther away. But although she never made any compromise with her rejection to be involved in any of those topics, she also forgave me for bringing up all them, and waited very patiently for me to correct my mistakes like a strict teacher who nevertheless really likes for their students to succeed and she kept guiding me towards the direction she wanted me to head towards, which interestingly was the complete opposite of the one I thought that I should go - I figured that we should be haring our life stories and finding some common ground through them, but she seemed to want to escape from the aforementioned stories like from a bad dream, and she absolutely didn't want me to have anything to do with them. She didn't wanted me to go closer to her, as I aimed to with my dumb conversations about favourite movies etc. but she wanted to keep me as far away from her as possible, she wanted us both to be free of ourselves. She didn't want to me in her castle, neither she wanted to get to mine (weird methaphor, as I am not sure that we can say that I have one) - she wanted to discover the world with me.


In the next hour, we spend hugging and laughing. It was beautiful, but very stale - having destroyed a whole world between us, we stayed together beautiful and fearless, but there was nothing that any of us wanted to say to the other person.

But there was no real issue with us sleeping together. Stupid thoughts like "but am I the person who is appropriate to be her first lover"


"Do you want to see Dana?" she asked me after a while (Dana was the nickname she used for that dirty profile in that social network that she told me about)...
