Perverted virgin

When she came back she had a transparent blouse that from which her nipples were clearly visible and the short miniskirt with panties of different color.

"So what do you like... in sex?" she said the last part after I sat silent for a few seconds (although her looks provided enough context for her question, even for me. "The... Part... Where... I... Cum...", I said and I became silent again, realising that what I said sounded like a stupid joke, although I was actually trying to be serious. "OK, what's your favourite category of porn sites?" she asked, and when I began blushing she began encouraging me "Yes, tell me what are you thinking about right *now*?"

But I didn't, and so she took the lead and started describing a sexual fantasy of hers which I am not sure I remember clearly as it was it was pretty complex, but which began something like this: Anna/Dana wakes up at the seashore after taking a part of a ship wreck. She is naked, except for a bra (she had this whole story that justified this). Soon she is captured by a tribe of ingenious people who plan to use her as a sex slave, but she somehow realizes this and comes up with a counter plan - to seduce the members of the tribe and turn *them* into sex slaves instead. And via a long series of orgies, backstabbing and mindgames (although a little chaotic at times, her plot was probably more structured than the narrative you are reading right now) she becomes the princess of the tribe.

She got immerced within that fantasy for seconds and started teasing me and then making me grop her, constantly getting in and out of character. The whole situation seemed funnier (and therefore much less weird) than I might have expected, but maybe it was because it all reached the level of weirdness after which you couldn't expect anything.

Or perhaps it was that it is not our quirks that makes us weird, it's out inability to accept them and to show them to the world, perhaps it's the fear that we would be misunderstood. A fear which was, obviously, totally well-grounded, but also illogical, as we are *always* misunderstood. It is this fear which actually is the sole reason why the very concept of the perverse exists. This fear of exposing yourself, that makes you hide, betray, even remove this part of you which you actually hold dearest. This fear that makes us make up explanations like "I went crazy for a while, this is not who I am, this is just a little deviation in my behaviour, this is Dana."

But why are deviations so bad? Presumably it's because they don't lead anywhere, like when I asked my father (and parents are the ultimate reason why deviations are considered wrong in the first place) why it's wrong to smoke pot, he told me  that as a respectable member of society, I *cannot be seen doing it* and so I have two options - I would either have to drop it at some point, which would be painful for me, or keep it a secret and live some kind of double life, but he clearly was most afraid of the third option which he didn't mention - that I might actually benefit from smoking, that I might decide not to be a respectable member of society, that I would deviate further and I would integrate this habit into my life and exibit it in a way that would normalize it in the eyes of some people and, by doing so, normalize myself as well, making the deviation an integral part of myself (and therefore not a deviation at all), and feeling good about it with the only downside of making people uncomfortable. 

He never mentioned that option because I would have asked him what's wrong with it and he would have to lie and say that it's not good to make people uncomfortable, but both of us would know that the worst part was that he would make *himself* uncomfortable, something that there was no way around. And the case with Ann was a similar - I am sure that she was way more insecure than she should be, because her parents were more assertive, but again, why was it so? 
