Soon we heard a knock on the window - Cathy was at our terrace smoking cigarettes and she already had a half-full ashtray in front of her. Anna, who was already wearing her normal clothes again, opened the door and let her in, and as soon as she entered she started talking, retelling us some news report that she had read about how the leader of some pseudo-nazi party is gaining more and more followers and how they (I didn't know if they were a man or a woman) might have a very good result at the next election. She seemed sad at first, but she quickly got back to her normal self (the one I knew from a few hours ago) as Anna was listening to her and encouraging her to tell us more.

"Oh, but you are just doing it to cheer me up," Cathy said, when she saw my featureless expression which reminded her that, like me, Ann had zero interest in politics and the like, "let's talk about something else!" And she immediately began a second topic telling us about how her evening with Alex went. It turned out that Alex was so tired from climbing that mountain that he fell asleep after a really short sex session and she couldn't wake him up any more, even even after she touched him and turned on the TV. 

"Sounds like you had much fun though?" I muttered and then went on to explain that we heard some noises, but Cathy explained to me that what we heard was her masturbating, next to her sleeping boyfriend.

It's important to have fun, Cathy said. But you must put some work into it, not just expect it to happen


Maybe I was so drawn to my fantasies in my private time, simply because in the rest of the time I was fulfilling other people's fantasies, I got used to it so much that that was all I did. Even with Cathy, I realise, like everybody else does, that I am copying her in every aspect of her life, but it is not so much because I admire her, as they think, as it is because I want *her* to feel that there is someone who understands her, I want her to not feel alone."

But how is that possible, that we cannot get away? Maybe we are just mistaking what quitting means, thinking that we are escaping when we are actually just walking the same old road, removing everything else but that which is our problem. Because the problem is our blind spot. Because we identify this problem with ourselves.


Then I look at my notes on the Knapsack problem which were laying there and with my reversed judgement I instantly realized that there was no solution for it - all I had to do to get the answer was to adjust my question - instead of asking why isn't P in NP. I asked myself who said that it should be there in the first place, and for what reason, and that question completely shifted my perception of the problem. As a matter of fact my shift was so complete that I even failed to understand the people who thought that there was a reason why P would be in NP - they all seemed like a bunch of self-important weirdoes, and mathematics seemed like an unhealthy obsession, that were twisting their minds, making them delusional with those weird ideas like that they posess knowledge that the others didn't while all they really did was concentrating at one detail, at a mere leaf falling from the crown of a gigantic three and insisting that this very leaf represented the tree in a way so complete that all they needed to do was to understand the leaf, and they will know more about the tree than the person who climbed it. 

The funny thing is that in some respects they are somewhat right - whenever you study mathematics, as in real life, you came across those very weird and convoluted structures that are beyond any kind of explanation - you have the fractals like the Mandelbrot set, that is a result set of a super simple equation but looks totally out of this world, you had the continuous processes that work in a way that is totally inexplicable to me, the NP problems, the motherfucking monster group (for which John Conways said that it's his only wish to "know what it is about"), you have Godel's incompleteness theorems, paradoxes like the Russell's. But no, most people who study maths would either ignore most of those or dismiss them as uninteresting, or alternatively obsess over one of them, forcefully trying to fit it in their invented structure, like so many people tried to fit NP into P.


I could not remove my self-doubt (and neither I wanted to), and the dreadful feeling that my my life and everything I can possibly say or do was not worth anything, but if I tried to, I felt that I could lessen the feeling of pretence that I actually felt was at its (the self-doubt's) root. After all, why a person would even bother to feel self-doubt if they didn't take themselves too seriously in the first place? We only doubt the things that we rely on, and that is clearly not so because there is no reason for us to doubt the rest, it is just that most of the time we don't bother ourselves with doing so. Is our practice of taking ourselves so seriously just a survival mechanism, a way not to float away from the "sane"? If so, then Anna's ironic gesture was probably the best reaction to everything that I did in the last year (althought she herself was one hundred percent the same as me), I was confident that I was brilliant, or at least that I would be brilliant one day, but I was no more brilliant than a person who attempts to build a house in a swamp and thinks that the reason other people missed the lovely spot was their superior perceptions and judgement (or that guy from the Greek myth who flew too close to the sun and fell, if you are looking for a more (over)poetic metaphor). At any rate, I was guilty about everything, the good and the bad stuff, myself. I felt that realizing that was a good start.


----
